If you're anything like me, you get frustrated with theory. You just want to see examples, so let me give you one.
Let's say you've got Wally, and Wally is a member of your website,
whatever that website that may be, let's call it BoomShakalaka. And let's say BoomShakalaka
is just an e-commerce site with a whole lot of products that their members can buy and
sell.
Well, why are data-types important?
Well, let's look at Wally in more detail.
Let's say you want to know information about Wally, you want to know his name,
how much funds he has in his account, is he currently logged on to the site,
and what items has he saved to favorites,
maybe he likes grass seeds and soap,
who knows?
If we take a step back and we look at all these chunks of data, you can clearly tell that there are different
types of values associated with each. Let's take Wally Smart.
Well, that's an obvious one.
It's just text. In JavaScript, remember, we call these strings. Next, balance of funds, 34.
That's a Number.
Is he currently logged on to your website?
Well, this is an interesting one, because there can only be yes or no.
In other words, it can only be true or false.
You can either be logged on or you can't.
And in JavaScript and in most other languages, this is known as a Boolean.
It's a Boolean type.
What about favorites?
What do you think that is?
You kind of right, if you saying it is a string.
But it's not just one string, is it?
It can be a whole lot of strings because maybe he's got one favorite.
Maybe he's got 20, maybe he's got 30. Hmm,
so let's just say that this is a complex object,
for now.